---
layout: post
title: End of 2024
date: 2024-12-31
tags:
  - life
---

The year is nearly over and that means it's time for a new word. I can't
remember where I stole this tradition from, probably some YouTube channel or
podcast I used to listen to, but each year I like to pick just one word to
define the upcoming new year. I like this approach a lot more than having
a resolution because it can become more fluid and change as the year goes on.

The word for 2024 was **read**. I had originally intended for this to be a way
to get myself reading books again and it worked. What I did not expect was to
also read various research papers, technical documents, ttrpg rule books, blog
posts, and even start writing myself. Biggest highlights were Dead House Gates
and Data Oriented Design (which I am still reading).

For 2025 I had a few ideas for possible words, but with having another kid in
March and coming to grips with how valuable time is as a currency the only
appropriate word I could think of is **focus**. I need to focus on things
I actually care about and not get lost in the noise of distractions, drama, and
other things eager to steal time from me. Calling back to my last post, in the
song "Blues" off of Geordie Greep's "The New Sound" there is a lyric that goes:

> Admit that you sleepwalk through life

This has been stuck in my head for the last few days and it really hits home. Do
I really need to have my headphones in when I am taking the dog outside? Is it
absolutely necessary for me to watch YouTube when I feel bored? Boredom is
a great tool for coming up with new ideas. Have I been robbing myself of that?

Which brings me back to **focus**. To help do this I made a list of activities
that I want to focus on for the first month. Additionally, to make sure I am
keeping myself balanced, I picked activities based off of ability scores. For
the month of January, I set a goal for each category and in a month from now
I'll take stock to see if I met any of those goals.

- **Strength:** Kettle bells
  - 10 workout sessions
- **Dexterity:** Drumming
  - Learn the song "Brianstorm" by the Arctic Monkeys
- **Constitution:** Cycling
  - Cycle for 10 hours
- **Intelligence:** Game dev
  - 10 Handmade Hero videos
- **Wisdom:** Reading
  - Read 300 pages
- **Charisma:** TTRPG
  - Run one session

This might be too much, it could also be too little. Either way, I am hoping to
cut back on things like YouTube that have been holding my attention hostage for
so long.
