---
layout: post
title: Focus
date: 2024-12-08
tags:
  - life
---

I saw a YouTube video earlier this week that made the claim that people today
have lost the ability to focus for extended periods of time compared to people
from a hundred or so years ago. I have no idea if any of that is true, but I can
say from my own perspective that I have been struggling lately with staying with
habits and hobbies. From weight loss to fitness to reading, it's just been very
difficult dialing in and keeping the rhythm and momentum going. I am hoping that
long form journaling can at least help with this problem, that is if I can keep
that habit too.

Speaking of which, I noticed that my one Traveller's Notebook that I purchased
was not getting much use any more. I bought a pocket sized notebook and that has
mostly taken over all my to-do lists and fleeting thoughts that need to be
written down. For the last few days I have tried making longer, paragraph style
entries in it to see if that does any good with the intention that they can be
revised and migrated into these blog posts when enough of them have been
accumulated.

Path of Exile 2 has been an absolute triumph of a game. I was never grabbed by
the first game, but I am thoroughly obsessed by the second one. I think it's due
to not being locked into skill tree decisions. It's a lot less punishing to
experiment and try new skill nodes to see if they make much of a difference in
your build. Also, phenomenal job by the developers in releasing a mostly stable
game on launch. Aside from the first 2-3 hours of server and database
maintenance I have had an incredibly smooth experience on Linux and that was not
expected. Especially after how poorly Stalker 2 performed on my system.

Also with that, I think I am at the end of my run for the Advent of Code this
year. It's been a lot of fun and I have really been pushed in my limited
knowledge of Zig, but I need to get back to game development and Path of Exile
2 is consuming my midnight oil. It's really made me think this year on variable
mutability and heap versus stack allocation in a way that Rust never did.
I think with Rust I was more preoccupied with making the compiler happy than
I was with thinking about what I was actually doing.

Finished another chapter of Date Oriented Design and I am continue to be
intrigued by it. So far the book is making some pretty strong claims and I can
now see a lot of the advantages of functional programming techniques that I had
previously written off as elitist intellectualism. Still, I won't be completely
sold until I can actually see concrete examples of these claims and put them to
use. It's easy to sell something, but much harder to demonstrate and see what
trade offs it has to offer.
