---
layout: post
title: Solo RPG
date: 2025-03-01
tags:
  - life
  - ttrpg
---

The first few months of 2025 have been pretty solid. I managed to learn how to
play Brianstorm (kinda), I read through 100 Go Mistakes and continue to study
data oriented design, and I started programming in Jai after getting access to
the private beta. Sure things are a little scary with my wife having a federal
position and the current administration is making her life very chaotic, but she
goes on maternity leave this month and gets a well deserved break from all the
churn. Not to mention we are having another kid this month which is it's own
version of scary, but I am sure we will adapt to whatever challenges are thrown
our way. The year of focus is off to a ripping start with some occasional
setbacks to my old ways, but I'm proud of what has been accomplished thus far.

On another note, I have been wanting to get backing into table top RPGs for the
longest time, but with having a kid it just makes scheduling time to play nearly
impossible. I have tried playing over discord but it just doesn't have the same
impact as being in person. One idea I have played with for the last few months
is trying my hand at solo role-play. It's not a bad way to try out new systems
without having the burden of teaching the new rules to a group. My latest
problem however is I have too many damn systems to try out (and I have at least
two new ones on the way via Kickstarter). I think what I am going to try is
dedicating Sunday nights to RPGs and maybe do eight sessions to evaluate a
system. The first system I think I will give a go is Knave 2E. It's just such a
minimal, no frills, system that has a lot of fresh ideas (to me at least) and I
want to see if it holds up over time. From my engineering background, stripping
down a product to it's barest pieces to be as streamlined and simple as possible
is challenging and wondrous.

It took 3 weeks, but I re-wrote my handmade hero project from Zig to Jai. It
started out as a means to evaluate if I actually wanted to use Jai to begin
with. I didn't have a project idea and didn't want to do AoC problems so this
seemed like a reasonable approach. It was how I ruled out Rust as being an
option as it took me nearly a weekend to unsuccessfully get SDL2 running in
Rust. After the 3 weeks was up I was still on the fence. I liked parts of Jai
and it was certainly less verbose than Zig, but Zig was a language that I could
reasonably start using at work in the next few years. Who knows if Jai is even
available to the public in the next 3-5 years. That being said, I thought it was
only fair that I read through the entire "how-to" section in Jai since I spent
1-2 months doing Ziglings last year. I am glad I did because Jai has so much
more to offer than I realized. I like the approach of the language being more
data oriented and I appreciate the power the language offers without getting in
the way. The meta programming is something I will need to learn over time, but
I could see the potential with the examples provided. I feel very fortunate
I got into the beta so quickly after expressing interest and will continue
writing Jai for as long as it makes sense.
